All right.
So as always, congratulations on reaching the end of another course section.
In this section, we explored the basics of the typescript programming language.
And of course, with this knowledge we can immediately jump into the project again in the next section
and learn about how we can incorporate TypeScript into our view app.
So what did we learn in this section?
TypeScript is just JavaScript with types.
It is a new language, but it's the same JavaScript we already know, so there's not that much to learn.
On top of the core language, you can think of TypeScript like an enhanced or expanded version of JavaScript
with type checking.
And what is type?
I mean, it means that the language checks that we are operating on the right kind of type, that we
are performing valid operations, that we are invoking valid methods, that we are accessing valid properties,
etc..
So TypeScript will do its best to help us as much as we can.
We can also help it by declaring the types of various JavaScript constructs in our program.
We can tell TypeScript the type of a variable, the type of a constant, the type of a parameter, the
type of return value.
So TypeScript is not implementation specific.
We're not writing any actual core business logic in TypeScript.
Rather, we're almost annotating or providing additional metadata around our existing code so the TypeScript
can validate that we are doing the right thing.
TypeScript does not exist for the benefit of the end user.
It exists for the benefit of us as developers.
So we are able to catch more errors or lapses in judgment earlier.
All right.
TypeScript infers a type of a value based on its original assignment or its internal logic.
So an example of internal logic is if we have a function that accepts two parameters and they're both
numbers and the function, it returns the product of them types who can infer that the return value
will also be a number, right?
However, we saw many times that its inference is not perfect, so feel free to correct the language
whenever it is wrong.
The syntax for declaring a type is kind of easy to remember.
You just put a colon after whatever thing it is that you're targeting and then provide the type right
there in line.
All right.
We learned about a lot of different types, string number, boolean, etc. We also learned about the
any type which can represent any type of value.
And it's generally considered an anti pattern because it defeats the purpose of JavaScript.
If you use any, anywhere, everywhere, you're basically turning TypeScript into JavaScript.
So if you want to skip typing and sometimes that's a necessity because you may not know the exact type
or it's a very difficult, complex type and you just want to, for example, finish a feature and then
come back later and add the proper type.
If you are tempted to use any, consider using the unknown type instead because the unknown type will
require a type guard before you perform an operation.
And remember, a type card is just the basic if statement that validates that you have something of
a given type.
You're basically saying, hey, if you have a string, then you have permission to call string methods,
even though you can't guarantee that that type is actually going to be a string.
So unknown should be generally preferred over any.
I'm not going to say that any is should never be used.
Obviously the real world presents all kinds of complex problems and sometimes you just need to make
TypeScript happy enough to compile.
But these two types do exist, and it's worth knowing the differences between them.
All right.
In addition to those basic primitive types, we can declare types for arrays, objects, functions as
well.
And of course, the more detail, the better that type checking.
So we saw that, for example, a string array is a different type than a number array.
They're arrays that hold different elements or different types of values inside them.
And similarly, a more precise definition of an object type.
For example, an object with a name property.
Such a string is a different type and a more specific type than the generic object type that is available
within Typekit.
Right.
So the more detail you can provide, the more effective typescript will be.
So sometimes, even when it comes to inference, TypeScript may get something that is kind of the correct
value but not always the best value.
And sometimes you can help it out by giving a more clear or precise type annotation.
All right.
We also learned about optional object properties.
That's pretty simple.
You just add the question mark symbol at the end of the property name and that declares that that property
is not required.
And of course, we can declare these properties in our object types, and we can do that, of course,
in line, for example, when we're accepting, for example, a function parameter that happens to be
an object.
But many times to keep our code pretty concise, what most typescript developers will do is define interfaces
or types, and an interface or type allows us to define a name for a reusable object type.
For example, an interface can say this object type will always have three properties.
The first property will be a number.
The second property will be a boolean, and the third optional property will be a string, etc..
And that allows you to consolidate and capture that logic its own named type.
You can then reuse many times throughout the program.
And we tend to use objects a lot in JavaScript.
That's why interfaces exist for those.
All right.
We also learned about generics.
A generic is a generic type whose exact specific type will be provided later when a function is actually
invoked.
So you use generics when you are defining an actual type for things like a function.
And what they allow us to do is to craft more reusable pieces of code.
And the reason they're more reusable and spares duplication is because the generic allows us to have
a single reusable function that can substitute a type later rather than creating a duplicate function
for each possible type variation.
So we saw an earlier lesson instead of creating a function to deal with a number array and then a string
array and then a boolean array, even though the function body does the same logic, instead we can
create a more generic function that says accept some kind of type T, which I promise to provide to
you later when I run this function.
And that way we can only define one function that is reusable and spares us the duplication of having
a lot more functions that have concrete types.
So a generic is almost like a parameter for a type in the same way that we have regular parameters that
represent inputs into our function.
A generic is a parameter for a type.
So whenever we use that function, the invocation will provide the argument for that type, for it to
be used in the type checking for that invocation of that function.
All right.
And with that, there is all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I hope you've had fun joining at a typescript.
This language really is taking off.
It's highly likely and probable that over time a lot of JavaScript code bases will eventually convert
to TypeScript because there are benefits and there are even studies, by the way, of studies from academia
that demonstrate how much TypeScript helps to reduce not just TypeScript, but how much typed languages
help to reduce a certain class of errors that you are able to run into whenever you're dealing with
dynamically typed languages like JavaScript.
That doesn't mean that I'm here to tell you that TypeScript is always the right answer.
I just hope that you see the benefits of what this language can provide.
And since it is such a modern and powerful and popular part of frontend development in JavaScript,
I do want to introduce it here so that I can show you how to incorporate it into view starting in the
next section.
All right.
So I hope you had fun and I will see you in the next lesson.